Hi, welcome to this month's Ask Your Herb Doctor. My name is Andrew Murray.
My name is Sarah Johanneson Murray.
For those of you who perhaps have never listened to our shows which run every third Friday of the
month from 7 till 8 p.m., we are both licensed medical herbalists who trained in England and
graduated there with a degree in herbal medicine. We run a clinic in Garboville where we consult
with patients about a wide range of conditions and this month we're again very pleased to welcome
Dr. Ray Peat to the show and we'll be finishing up last month's discussion on food additives and
the detrimental effects, detrimental health effects of food additives and ingredients that
may not even be listed. But after that we want to cover the topic of cancer in general and
immunosurveillance and immunology of cancer and perhaps a lot of beliefs about cancer which are
probably more propagated than true. So I know Dr. Raymond Peat has quite an extensive
experience with this and certainly from his background things have changed a lot since
he was studying and I think what he will bring out is that some of the doctrines that have been
made very common are pretty erroneous and that some of the old research as well as some of new
research needs to be taken carefully in the light of what it is showing. Okay so Dr. Raymond Peat
thank you for joining us again on the show. Okay so just to finish up last month's topics of the
food additives and the kind of things that they will be harmful, they will be harmful in consuming
them. Most people when they buy foods off the shelf, I know in England definitely people will
look very carefully at the labels, the ingredient panel and everything as far as I know it has to
be disclosed in England. They have got fairly strict food laws whereas in America there is a
certain percentage of food ingredients that legally don't have to be detailed. So I know some
of those things that we mentioned last month we talked about and I know there was a couple of
things, things like dough conditioners and rennets that I'd like to just discuss with you. The dough
conditioner, most people probably don't even know it exists in bread or if they do they haven't
really thought too much about it. But would you say a little bit about the iodine bromate which is
a fairly common additive to bread and what likely negative health effects it's going to have?
Well besides any changes that it makes to the proteins and starches which will make them more
likely to be allergenic, any that gets into the system is going to be an anti-thyroid agent at
least. Right, okay, yeah. So it's going to be thyroid suppressive in some respects. Okay,
and then things like the, I know cheeses, I know we've spent quite a bit of time researching
cheeses, I know our family consumes lots of different cheeses and have leaned more towards
the European cheeses because of their consistency and the type of manufacturing they go through is
certainly less, I want to say harmful, but it's more of a traditional type of manufacturing for
a food. I know in the states and it's not so much just the states but I know probably for the last
15 years or so the genetically modified yeasts etc that have been used to culture cheese have
been certainly very widespread and it's quite difficult these days to get a cheese that's not
actually made using a genetically engineered yeast. What do you know about the genetically
engineered yeasts and the trouble with them rather than using traditional rennet from...
Well, I think the worst problem is that they are using things to carry the
microbial enzymes. There is always some debris from the aspergillus or whatever the microbe is
they're using as a source of the enzymes and the genetic modification is going to make them
somewhat different but they're already toxic and allergenic in themselves and so even if they're
perfectly normal naturally evolved organisms any debris from them that goes along with the enzyme
is going to be very risky. But even worse than simply having microbial enzymes where there used
to be animal enzymes to distribute and emulsify or mix the enzymes efficiently to make them store
and package so they can be canned and then just dumped into the bat. They're using seaweed
materials either carrageenan or other things that for example one of the
compounds that's being used to make microspheres to enclose the microbial enzymes one of these
has been used to make dental mold for taking impressions of the mouth and making restorations.
One person died shortly after having some of that stuff put in his mouth and the students of
dentistry a very high proportion of them had serious allergic reactions when they were practicing with
them but these things are routinely being added to foods to carry other products and as a packaging
or carrying material they don't show up on the labels at all. So I mean even on the labels for
cheese if you go into the grocery store and look at the label for the cheese sometimes it just says
rennet and that could mean animal rennet or it could mean vegetable rennet and the vegetable
rennet never really comes from a vegetable source it's always either genetically modified or grown
on a mold and that would be the microbial enzymes or it says non-animal rennet they have all these
different types of course there's there are natural rennet available like fig juice and
cardoon thistle but of course no companies use those anymore to manufacture so you're saying
not only are these enzymes problematic but also the carriers that they that carry the enzymes so
that it's easy and convenient for the cheese maker to make cheese. And they're being used as carriers
for other foods I don't know how far it has gone but they're for the last 10 years it's
increasingly common to use the seaweed materials which are potentially deadly.
One of the other most deadly allergens was sulfite that killed a few people eating
restaurant salads or seafood that had been deodorized with it but it was even after
that was recognized that it could be deadly when it was used on a salad it was still used in drugs
sold for treating asthma patients for years and years. The product allupin a girl who had almost
died in the hospital being treated with that once was about to be treated with it again the doctor
wouldn't acknowledge that she had any validity and she grabbed the bottle and ran with her oxygen
bottle and right on the bottle it said contains metabisulfite and I wrote to the FDA and the
drug companies that made it and the Journal of the American Medical Association.
They all said yes it's a problem it can kill people but they went on selling it for years
and didn't even publish warnings or extra labels that this might kill you.
Were they trying to cite the small numbers of people that might be killed as a reasonable
cost? Yeah it killed mostly people who already had asthma. Right and who were already allergic
to the sulfites right? Yeah. Now it's interesting you mentioned sulfites so thank you for mentioning
that the wine and beer industry that's pretty much what keeps most wines stable or so they say
stable I know that winemakers don't have to use sulfites I'm certainly not defending them but
sulfites are prevalent as sodium metabisulfite as both as a cleaning agent and also as an agent to
halt fermentation. I know in beer making I used to make quite a lot of beer when I was younger
and I know that sodium metabisulfite tablets were a pretty common place in beer making.
And even organic fruits can be processed with the sulfur dioxide. Yeah yeah and that's another very
interesting point the sulfur dioxide they use in dried fruit especially that's a fairly common
ingredient isn't it? Yeah so what do you what do you what do you state as the kind of toxic side
effects of sulfites apart from what you've already mentioned for the asthma patient? Oh I think that's
the allergic reaction is really the only serious toxic effect. Okay. A person never knows when
they're going to have an allergic reaction if if they just happen to have not eaten for
an extra long time or if their thyroid happens to have fallen there can be a sudden increase in
allergic sensitivity because the blood sugar very very powerfully controls the release of histamine
and other agents. In the absence in low blood sugar situations is that the case? Yeah and in
experiments they found that the mildest allergen would kill animals with shock if their blood sugar
was lowered to 50 percent of normal. Wow so this would be another good reason to defend the
consumption of sugar it's always been such a maligned substance you know sugar free. If they
doubled the blood sugar of the animals even the deadly allergen would only cause a slight
reddening of their nose and sniffles. So that's the motto eat frequently throughout the day right?
Yeah eating frequently avoids several stress reactions including fluctuations in blood sugar.
Now I know there are people listening who are going to be still stuck on the mantra or the
doctrine if you like and that's the thing that I want to open up in a few short moments about
cancer but that we're all led to believe that sugar is bad for you you'll get diabetes if you
eat too much sugar. How do you defend that Dr. Peat and support sugar's role in the healthy organism?
A lot of people cite Otto Warburg's work in the 1920s in which he showed that cancer cells
can't use oxygen efficiently and so they use sugar at an extremely high rate. Right. And so
people are now saying if cancer cells can only live on sugar then you shouldn't eat sugar but
that just isn't an argument because the body when you have even a small tumor the body senses
danger and increases its production of cortisol. One of the very early events in cancer is a
chronic elevation of cortisol and the cortisol turns your tissues to sugar and so if you don't
eat sugar your body wastes away faster. Right that's the cachexia associated with that.
And that the wasting away of your immune system and other tissues is really what
kills most people from the cancer. Okay. And so there have been experiments in which
very high concentrations of glucose were put in for example if there was a tumor in an extremity
where they could isolate that circulation and put a high concentration like a glucose syrup
into the artery feeding the leg the sugar itself would cause the cancer to die.
And so it not only spares your immune system and brain and other tissues but if it can be
delivered long enough at a high enough concentration it allows something to happen
in the cancer that can kill the cancer. Wow okay so let's just go straight into the
topic of the science and the kind of dogma surrounding current cancer theory and the
fairly new or even in the in cases of older papers the kind of rediscovered papers written
some time ago that are kind of largely ignored and not part of mainstream
understanding and some of those theories about cancer in the new stem cell research that's being
done. How do you see the cancer cells arising because we've always been traditionally
told or taught at least that cancer cells are outside of the body's general control
and we all led to believe that this apoptosis or cell program death exists and it's part of a
genetic code in each cell only has so many so many times that it can reproduce and then it's
automatically turned off and but cancer cells don't acknowledge that they don't. Yeah everything
is wrong with that belief going back to the middle of the 19th century people were seeing that cancer
arises in a field they called it the cancer field of visibly abnormal cells and after this basically
inflamed area had persisted for a long time mutant cells might appear somewhere in it but
that is something that is it has been developed progressively over 150 years that there is such
a thing as a cancer field and anything irritating or destructive that the body can't overcome
will cause a progressive stressing or inflammation of the tissue and you can develop a cancer
before there is any mutation identifiable. Harry Rubin at Berkeley is really the only
official academic biologist who has worked on that topic and he has shown that there definitely is
a pre-mutational definitive cancer condition and in the cancer then in the tissue as a whole is so
unhealthy that mutations among other changes occur in the DNA but the DNA event really is
down the road from what is causing the cancer. Okay so you're suggesting that there's there's
such an injury or a chronic inflammation to a certain tissue and eventually that's what causes
a cancer? Yeah and when you look at the actual functioning of a tumor which it produces cells
that look funny have three-cornered cell divisions and a very bizarre behavior and
genetic changes in the DNA. These cells are very very sick cells that don't have a long lifespan
there when you see them in a biopsy cross-section what you're seeing as cancer cells are very
mortal cells that probably will die in the next couple of divisions and the the doctrine that
that cancer cells are immortal and body cells are mortal it's completely backwards.
The Hayflick doctrine was really invented that cells can only divide 50 times.
It was really invented to reinforce this DNA-centric view of biology and in fact
the stem cell work has definitively shown that all cells seem to be
basically stem cells and immortal given the right circumstances and when the the cancer
industry is now forced to think about the idea of stem cells but when they talk about a cancer
stem cell basically they are just going back to the old concept of a mutant cell and the clone of
a mutant cell they totally miss the point of of the stem cell research which is that the stem cells
are normal cells which are able to regenerate any tissue that needs help and the function of the
tumor is some kind of a process of healing and regeneration that can't come to completion
something is missing that would allow a tumor to let the the sick cells die while the
the healthy cells return to normal functioning. Studies of x-ray treated tumors found that
in fact the x-ray had accelerated the death of all of the original tumor cells but it
actually accelerated the ability of the tumor to call for help and recruit stem cells from the
bloodstream or from adjacent tissues and so the same signals that are sent out causing
a region of inflammation to progressively become more active metabolically these signals are
calling for assistance and replacement cells so when a tumor is irradiated it increases its ability
to call for help and so the reason the tumor keeps growing even after everything is killed with
radiation is that you have increased the injury and made it able to recruit more stem cells
and then grow into more cancer yeah because something is still missing in the organism
which could allow a proper completion of the healing process. How do you see metastases
in the light of the cancer being a recruitment of stem cells to that local site? Way back in the
30s 40s and 50s tests were made on prison inmates and foreigners implanting pieces of cancer in them
either with or without their permission and it was over and over found that people who had the cancer
would accept a transplant and people who were healthy didn't suffer any consequences from
having a bit of a cancer injected into them and the bulk of the research with
putting human cancers into animals are done in the nude mouse which happens to be a mutant that
not only lacks hair but it lacks the sinus glands. Okay and this is a b-cell so the transplantation
or the metastasis which is simply a self-induced transplantation this involves
a defect in the whole organism that makes it susceptible to receiving a transplant.
Right because it shouldn't be receiving the transplant in the first place.
I didn't hear that. Basically the body should be rejecting the yeah yeah normally the cancer
transplant. It's constantly rejecting uh cells that go astray and if if the cell isn't appropriate
for that organ or tissue it can't live in that environment and so dies. But the animals that
could accept the cancer transplants were obviously so unhealthy that their bodies didn't reject
the tissue is that what you're trying to say? Yeah they can't even grow hair.
So they're already a deformed organism. I want to go back to what you said about radiation Dr. Peat
is that why radiation is used in the cancer industry is because it does kill some tumor
cells? Oh yeah it'll it'll stop the um the cells that are irradiated um it stops them right in
their tracks uh healthy or sick especially uh the uh the sick cells were going to die anyway but
it'll stop the growth of healthy tissue and cause it to produce uh first it releases histamine
and serotonin and uh tryptase enzymes that cause inflammation and and degeneration locally. That's
within 30 minutes of getting irradiated there's a burst of these allergens uh reactive substances
and then that leads to a chronic overproduction of collagen and the growth of uh repair cells
fibroblasts. So first it's inflammation then fibrosis. Now the body's trying to heal the
inflammation or take care of it. And if the body can't uh heal this scarred atrophied tissue then
the cells can uh if they recruit cells that try to repair it and so it'll keep
becoming a a risk of future cancers just as part of the attempt to repair a sick tissue.
So that's why while some people might have radiation for their cancer it's very uh often
that the cancer returns is because it didn't take care of the underlying problem in the first place.
Yeah. Okay you're listening to Ask Your Herb Doctor on KMED Galbafil 91.1 FM and from 7 30
until the end of the show at 8 o'clock you're invited to call in with any questions either
related or unrelated to this month's topic of current cancer research and old theory.
My name is Andrew Murray. My name is Sarah Johannison Murray. And we're joined by guest
speaker Dr. Raymond Peat endocrinologist biochemist and physiologist. The number here if you live in
the area is 923 3911 or if you live outside the area the toll-free number is 1-800-568-3723.
How about the uh is the current theory in place that cancer cells have slightly different surface
markers on their cell membranes? The MHCs that are normally associated with body cells
being different in cancer cells is that immunology still current or? Oh um yeah they're
they're degenerating and so they can go off in many directions and so they can be killed very
easily because they're recognized as abnormal material. Okay. And the normal function of what's
called the immune system is to maintain the proper development and form of the body and
the phagocytosis of sick or injured tissue is really at the center of the immune system and
germs don't necessarily trigger the immune system unless they damage something. As soon as they
damage something then the immune system tries to take care of it cleaning up what damage has been
done and in the process they'll clear out the bacteria or viruses. But really in the development
of the organism the immune system is really part of our developmental nutritional control systems.
Okay um I know we mentioned at the beginning of this discussion about constant irritation and I
know um when I was studying the this constant irritation and specifically something that most
people can understand is constant irritation uh smoking and how smoking ultimately in a lot of
people would lead to lung cancer and so that constant irritation of the tobacco smoke those
particles in the lung tissue uh caused this change in the cell and that was the that was the beginning
of lung cancer. How the higher a cell's energy capacity is the more it takes to irritate it.
Okay. And so keeping your cellular energy at a maximum means that you're pretty immune to
irritation but if if something impairs your energy production then almost anything becomes irritating.
So that's what you see commonly in low thyroid diseases the energy production of the cell is
very decreased very much decreased and then you can have allergic reactions or cancer come
start up. And in cigarette smoke there are not only uh the uh irritants and um the
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are the famous carcinogens but they are also estrogens and
irritants are causing pain and inflammation and estrogen-like changes and uh behind those irritants
there's the carbon monoxide which blocks oxygen use and so makes the cell spontaneously
more susceptible to over stimulation or irritation.
And when you add up uh different types of stimulation and uh impairment of energy production
then you have a greater risk of chronic inflammation and cancer. And besides those
hydrocarbons that you say are estrogenic those suppress the thyroid as well. Yeah um the um
alternative for really it used to be the main line cancer research was really at the point of
understanding uh how cancer development works uh the work of the Pullman's
in the 1940s and 50s was uh showing that it's the electronic behavior of these
aromatic hydrocarbons that uh act as signals to the cells in the same way that estrogen
substances signal the cells. And uh the um various uh drug interests and government interests uh
diverted that line of research by not financing it anymore and instead they finance the um molecular
biology approach which is uh explaining away those hormonal actions of the aromatic hydrocarbons
as nothing but a type of mutation. They they happen to fit into the DNA very compactly
and uh do mutate it but really their main uh mechanism for mutating the DNA is by acting
as hormones that uh deplete the energy of the cell while over exciting it.
Okay so I think most people listening to the show this evening could understand the truth
behind the statement that a energetic active organism is more able to defend itself against
external uh threats and external uh breakdown but the weak de-energized organism is more easily
overcome. How does how does a human being energize itself in terms of uh improving its ATP production
and being more uh yeah more energetic? First you need all of the essential vitamins and minerals
and adequate amino acids and proteins of the right sorts but sugar is very essential for uh
keeping your thyroid functioning up without resorting to a cortisone overproduction. Right.
And uh the essential nutrients if you're getting enough sugar uh will allow your your thyroid to
function unless the thyroid is specifically signaled to turn off by such things as polyunsaturated
fatty acids and estrogens which are very systematically involved in turning down your
metabolism. Once that weakening process starts from such things as smoke and
hormone imitating toxins then the bacteria in your intestines will produce toxins that you absorb
when your intestine is de-energized it becomes permeable and anything in the intestine then can
leak right into the bloodstream. So if you're exhausted you might get flu-like symptoms.
If your thyroid is being poisoned flu-like symptoms will often make you ache all over and
feel exhausted and so on. So the intestine is always available as a sort of a third level
of toxicity and and energy poisoning. Okay so you would avoid things like polyunsaturates you would
improve your thyroid function. Um polyunsaturated let's just uh specify the polyunsaturated fatty
acids are vegetable oils corn soy canola cotton seed sesame seed oil all those vegetable oils
that are in common use in restaurants. In the 1980s the French did a great series of experiments
showing that every stage of the thyroid hormone production and response and transport every stage
was blocked in proportion to the number of double bonds in the unsaturated fat. So
the monounsaturated were slightly inhibiting compared to the saturated fats or sugars. The
two bonded uh two double bonds like linoleic acid were much more inhibiting and the triply
or quadruply unsaturated fat such as the popular fish oils and omega minus three
fats these are the most inhibiting to the the whole energy system. So the bottom line there is
eat coconut oil and butter and avoid all other oils olive oil in moderation. Yeah and sugar is
really the basic protection against the toxicity of the oils. So keep your blood sugar up with
frequent meals and lots of fresh fruit. Lots of fruits yeah. Lots of fruit is the best sugar.
Perfect I think we've got a caller on the line so let's take the call. Caller you're on the air.
[Phone rings]
Hello caller. Oh we had a caller anyway all right well until the caller comes back or we get another
another caller. I think the phones I can see the lights flashing and the phones are going so until
we get the oh you're on the air again. Hello. Well that's not done either. Well I know they're coming
in because the lights are flashing but for some reason they're not uh they're not coming through.
Anyway so I think to get back to the the cancer issue and what's what's not being done in terms
of what's being done wrong in terms of most people's treatment for cancer and the pretty poor
success rate. Almost universally doctors want to kill cancer cells but the cancer cells
just want to die. They're very weak cells and you damage the organism when you concentrate on
killing the cancer cells. Right. And since the total death rate from cancer has simply steadily
increased. Right. The only way they can claim they're making progress is by diagnosing cancer
more often. If you look in enough tissues and organs by the time a person is 50 you can find
at least one cancer and so if you diagnose really hard you can have about a an 80 or 90 percent cure
rate without actually curing anyone. I think the caller that we had Dr. Peat has come back on so
we'll carry on this conversation once we've had the caller. You're on the air? Hello. Hello you're
on the air. Yeah hello. Yes. Is that me? It is. Okay um I wanted to ask some questions about sugar
to clarify. You sound like uh the impression I'm getting is like oh sugar's okay go for it
you need sugar. Now um as far as I know sugar especially refined white sugar is addicting.
It's it's more of a drug than a food. Most people's obesity can be traced to their addiction to sugar
and most diabetes can be traced to an overuse of sugar which overuses the insulin to where the
insulin production the pancreas wears out and can't produce enough insulin to keep up with the
sugar and then a person has to go on artificial insulin just to live. Now I assume fruit sugar
and if you're just eating fruit that that's okay but can you clarify the difference between eating
fruit sugar and an apple or an orange or eating you know candy and cookies with white sugar and
refined white flour? I mean that can't be good for your body. Could you address that please?
Um starches and proteins really are very powerful stimulants to insulin and the combination of
starch and polyunsaturated fats will cause the greatest disturbance of blood sugar much more
than eating white sugar candy and such. The polyunsaturated fat block the ability to use sugar
and so the cells experience a sugar deficiency and turn on stress reactions and the starches
are pure glucose rather than 50/50 fructose and glucose and so starches are much more powerful
stimulants to insulin and the stress reactions. So um just to kind of clarify that a little bit
here for our listeners Dr. Peat you're saying that starches well I know they have a glycemic index of
around 140 or 138 and that includes bread, pasta, chips, cookies, cakes, all those foods that are
starchy carbohydrates rather than actually the sugar in them well that adds to it but the starches
themselves have a much higher glycemic index so they will cause your pancreas to have to
secrete a lot more insulin. Now white sugar has a glycemic index of around 99 and whilst organic
raw honey is one of the best sweeteners there is, fruit sugars, honey has a lot more fructose
than sucrose so honey even has a lower glycemic index than white sugar and fruits have a glycemic
index of around 75. The potassium content of fruit is really what keeps the insulin much much lower.
If you eat a piece of bread you are getting very little potassium but if you eat a piece of fruit
with the same amount of sugar the potassium will pretty much take care of the insulin issue it acts
like insulin and so when you eat a piece of fruit you're having very little stimulation to your
fat production. And the other thing too that I've found out is that white sugar actually because
it's been filtered is much less allergenic to the organism than the raw brown sugar the
rapadura sugar. Dr. Peat can you comment on that point? Yeah the manufacture of brown sugar
when you centrifuge it the first wash is blackstrap molasses and I've noticed that
there's usually a very smoky taste in the blackstrap and it has been a common practice
to burn the cane fields to make it easier to harvest and so some of the brown stuff is
smoke and the rest of it if you just boil sugar even white pure sugar if you boil it at a very
high temperature driving off the water so the temperature rises above 100 degrees Celsius
any impurities in it will start causing polymerization reactions and create allergens
from the sugar itself and so the brown material containing a lot of biological materials other
than sugar heating that with the sugar can make some pretty intense allergens.
So to summarize all that the best source of sugar in your opinion than Dr. Peat is fruit
soft ripe fresh fruit and milk sugar and then so that's number one number two would be raw honey
and then if you had to eat sugar then it would be white sugar rather than brown correct? Yeah.
And then the starches are the least preferable form to get your sugar in because they
have very little minerals to balance the high spike of glucose that's released and the high
glycemic index they have even in whole grains. Yeah and that stimulation of insulin always leads
to a surge of cortisol which tends to destroy the protein in your tissues to keep your sugar
up against the effect of insulin and so eating even too much protein at a time without fruit
will waste a lot of protein. I've seen people who are eating more than two pounds of meat a day
who were having signs of protein deficiency with super amounts of cortisol being produced
and tremendous amounts of amino acids in their urine. Wow waste. So not only do these starches
so it's you know it's yes it's a well-known fact that cakes and cookies cause problems and
diabetes but it's not as well as the oils that are put in the cakes and the cookies the vegetable
oils but it also can be too much protein not balanced by enough sugars can lead to the same
situation. Okay I think there's another caller so caller you're on the air hello. Hello yeah you're
on the air. Okay I just had a quick one question and one thing I wanted to thank Dr. Peat because
I heard him on another radio station and I cut out everything but butter and it gave me a lot
more energy. I stopped using vegetable oils entirely so thank you for that and what I wanted
to ask you was I was told that if I follow acid that would help depression and not sure why could
you explain that or is that wrong? What kind of acid? Folic acid. Oh well fruits are very good
sources of folic acid. I don't know of any special function it has in digestion but it
it the right amount of it is very protective. Oh not digestion depression.
Did you say depression? Yeah. Yeah okay so that thing the lady was talking about. Oh depression
yeah oh yeah it's needed to make the transmitter substances nerve transmitter and. Oh okay
all right so eat your fruit for any depressant activity.
Okay thank you. Thank you for your call. I think we're getting a little bit of disturbance on the
air on the phones. It's a bit unfortunate I'm likely hearing some very strange alien type sounds
but that's probably some of the reason for. Hopefully it's only us that's hearing it. Yeah
well I'm not sure if it goes out on the air or not. Okay so yeah it's 7 48 and we are very pleased
to have Dr. Raymond Peat on the show and we were talking about cancer in terms of the most current
theories and old theories and the best ways of treating the organism so far that we've got out
of this is that the organism's energy the amount of spare energy the organism has the greater the
amount the better able to defend the organism against insults etc and and disease in general
so what what's being done currently that you're excited about in terms of cancer treatment Dr.
Peat? Oh more and more people are recognizing the importance of aspirin and stopping inflammation
and that is not always interpreted appropriately but as we age we accumulate more and more of the
polyunfaturated fats in our tissues and under stress we have those circulating in the blood
and that means that they are available more and more chronically to produce the inflammatory
prostaglandins and so aspirin is in a way an anti-aging defense against a lifetime of
of accumulating polyunsaturated fat and it's now known that it prevents essentially all kinds of
cancer to some degree of use it chronically but it's now being used therapeutically
backing up other more conventional or toxic treatments but it's a very safe treatment and
its use is increasing. Aspirin's been around for a long time but you know originally they
derived the cetosalicylic acid from or precursors to that compound from white willow bark and meadow
sweet and other herbs so it's a very very ancient remedy. How many aspirins or how much aspirin would
you suggest Dr. Peat because I know some people out there and undoubtedly will be talking about
gastric ulcers and bleeding and you know how bad aspirin is for you. So yes the aspirin should be
backed up with always with plenty of vitamin k and not the synthetic k but natural k1 and k2
and vitamin k happens to be structurally extremely similar to a tropical botanical
drug called lopacho or lopachoin and that has been used for generations with lots of success
for treating cancer and it's analogous to several other drugs that have a good history of treating
cancer. Imodin from aloe and cascara is structurally analogous to vitamin k and
and tetracycline the microbial antibiotic is it has considerable anti-cancer action but it
doesn't kill the cancer cells necessarily it protects the organism the same way cascara
does to protect the mitochondria from being poisoned. Okay I think we've actually got one
or two more callers on the line so let's let's take the next caller. Hi I almost hate to call
in and interrupt but I have so much gratitude for these programs thank you. You're very welcome.
Thank you for your call. Oh it's immensely informative I'm in really great health luckily
I just follow the herbs and good food and what do you have any feelings about quercetin
and staying healthy or? Okay Dr. Peat would you do you have much to say about quercetin?
What was the word? The quercetin. Quercetin. Yeah. Oh well you get similar things in fruits in the
safest way I think. Okay. Oranges have some substances that are even safer and better than
quercetin. Norenginon for example that's my favorite thing in that category. And also nettle
leaf not only is it high in vitamin k I always like to go on about nettles it's very high in
vitamin k but it also has quercetin as well as lots of minerals and anahistamine function well
the quercetin is part of anahistamine function. Okay I think there's another caller caller
and we'll take this next call of Dr. Peat and I think this might be hello hello you're on the air.
Yes now I have I had two things and now when you mentioned the nettles that I thought of another
but I guess there's very little time so with you're using white willow bark in mediherb what
would be maybe an average amount for what Dr. Peat is recommending like one tablet? Well yeah the
mediherb tablets I think you'd probably need to be using I mean if you're talking about just an
anti-inflammatory effect daily probably about one tablet daily maybe split up into a couple doses
but if you're talking about an anti-cancer dose it'd probably be more like nine tablets a day.
Okay well I think people might like to know that there's something besides like a Bayer
aspirin which companies don't want to use that company or corporate company that there isn't
some alternative. Yes and there is white willow bark this see white willow bark itself is so
you have to take so much of it so if you make a tea you have to drink a lot of tea that's why
when it's standardized and concentrated it's more effective and it is a problem with the aspirins
they have starches and other odd weird ingredients in them that the one brand that doesn't have as
many terrible ingredients is the western family brand if you were looking for aspirin otherwise
for white willow bark we have a standardized white willow bark powder that is standardized
it contains certain amount of salicylic acid and the therapeutic dose is much easier a couple
capsules a day rather than gallons of white willow bark tea but did you have another question? Yes I
wanted to ask the audience that there's somebody who has an abundance of deer ewe that I would
like to trade for a plant and my number is 923-5142 this is Corinne and the alien sounds are coming
from the radio. Yeah I thought I heard those too your number again? I'll repeat Corinne's number
is 907-926-5142 and she's looking for some fever food plants if anyone has some fever extra fever
food plant she wants to trade. Good okay. Thank you for your call Corinne. Yeah I don't know what's
up with all the echo tonight I'm not sure it's all coming from the the calls from the phones but I
don't know why. Well we won't say it's anything to do with any kind of government control or
anything like that it's just the way it is. Okay because I know there's a plenty of controversy
surrounding some of the topics that we cover I know people certainly like to hear it. I want
to ask Dr. Peat one more question tonight and that is what do you think of the American Cancer
Society and the whole cancer treatment in this day and age? Oh I haven't been following it recently
but I've checked in on them over the last several decades and I see a lot of fraud.
One lecture tour sponsored by them was to show that they had cured lung cancer and leukemia
and this famous biologist from University of California was using phony statistics to make
it look like the American Cancer Society was responsible for the disappearance of both
leukemia and lung cancer and the figures simply didn't show it for lung cancer if you use the
right kind of statistics and the ending of atomic bomb testing accounted for the drop in childhood
leukemia. But they do propagandistic things pretty habitually I think. So why there seems to be I
mean a lot of the research you send me is a lot of scientists around this country and around the
world doing research on anti-cancer substances but yet it seems it never reaches the hospitals
and where people are actually getting treated for cancer so why is that Dr. Peat? Well the drug
companies really went a good drug for them is something that you pay all your money for and
keep taking as long as you're alive and they don't want people getting cured with something like
aspirin and fruit juice. Or powderco and cascara. Okay all right well I know it's getting pretty
twitchy there in the control room and it's 7.58 so we've got two more minutes but hey we need to
think about wrapping up for this evening. Well thank you very much again for joining us Dr. Peat.
Thank you. Okay so for those people who've listened to our show thank you very much for
all the feedback and your comments much appreciated. Dr. Ray Peat can be contacted via his website on
www.raypeat.com and that's spelled r-a-y-p-e-a-t dot com r-a-y-p-e-a-t and we can be reached toll
free on 1-888-WBM-ERB which is 1-888-926-4372 for consultations or further information. Thank you
very much for listening and thank you very much for joining our show Dr. Peat. Okay and I think
we'll just break the end of the show by saying the truth is out there for those people who want to
hear the truth stand up look around open your ears and the truth is out there so whilst a lie
and this is one of Dr. Raymond Peat's quotes on his newsletters whilst and I think I can get this
kind of right whilst a lie spreads around the world truth is just putting her boots on so
think about that folks this truth is not going to be easy to find but it's out there.